Acceptance test doc update (#297)
oppia/oppia-web-developer-docs: Acceptance-Tests.md

    │  ├── puppeteer-utils.ts
    │  ├── show-message-utils.ts
    │  ├── test-constants.ts
    │  ├── user-factory.ts

>     │  └── console-reporter.ts

Reviewer: Add an explanation for this file (console-reporter.ts) inside, The directory structure is as follows... The puppeteer-testing-utilities... new bullet point.

Author: Done, Thanks

We can handle these differences by including conditional statements in the `utils` file, using the `isViewportAtMobileWidth()` function to execute commands specific to mobile devices.

For Eg.

```typescript
async discardCurrentChanges(): Promise<void> {
    // Check if the viewport corresponds to a mobile device.
    if (this.isViewportAtMobileWidth()) {
        // If on mobile, click on the mobile-specific discard button.
        await this.clickOn(mobileDiscardButton);
    } else {
        // If on desktop, click on the desktop-specific discard button.
        await this.clickOn(discardDraftButton);
    }
    // Confirm the discard action, regardless of the viewport size(common in both).
    await this.clickOn(discardConfirmButton);
}
```

In this example, the `discardCurrentChanges()` function checks if the viewport width corresponds to a mobile device, and if so, clicks on the mobile-specific discard button. Otherwise, it clicks on the desktop-specific discard button. Finally, it confirms the discard action. This approach allows us to maintain a single set of tests while accommodating differences between desktop and mobile environments.

> ### console errors logging functionality in Acceptance Tests

Reviewer: Move this section (console errors section) to above since it can be used in all cases (mobile/desktop), also should be capitalized beginning word and rest non capitalized. Console errors...

Author: done, Thanks :)

> Now, Acceptance Tests are capable of finding console errors during CUJ's and it will break the test. But in some cases where the console error can be ignored and not in high priority right now then we can ignore that with help of `consoleReporter.setConsoleErrorsToIgnore`

Reviewer: consoleReporter -> ConsoleReporter

Author: Done, thanks :)

```typescript

> ConsoleReporter.setConsoleErrorsToIgnore([

Reviewer: This is only used for situations where the console errors are acceptable and they should be more precise as the console errors only show up as a byproduct of the test (e.g.  ConsoleReporter.setConsoleErrorsToIgnore([
  'Blog Post with the given title exists already. Please use a different title.',
]);) <- This only shows up as an error since the test errors it. The error in this case isn't generic like status of 500 but the actual error.

Author: Done, Thanks :)

>   /Failed to load resource: the server responded with a status of 500/,

Reviewer: We should add another statement on how to add errors that are already existing or issues that are bugs. To ignore these, we should put them in the actual console-reporter.ts utility (should probably mention this as a file in the tree above as well). You can look in there to see how we do it but basically we put the error regex into a constant array and put a TODO to the filed issue.

Author: Done, Thanks :)

10) The test must be thoroughly tested before submitting a PR. The test can be run locally by running the following command as mentioned above or you can run the test on the CI server by pushing your code to the remote branch in your fork. The CI server will run the test and will show the result.

### Console errors logging functionality in Acceptance Tests

> Now, Acceptance Tests have the capability to detect console errors during CUJ's, potentially causing test failures. However, there are scenarios where certain console errors can be deemed acceptable and require more precise handling, especially when these errors are incidental to the test execution. For example, using `ConsoleReporter.setConsoleErrorsToIgnore`, specific error messages can be designated to be overlooked temporarily. This functionality is particularly useful when the observed console errors are not critical for the current testing objectives. For instance, errors like `Blog Post with the given title exists already. Please use a different title.` might occur during testing but are not indicative of a test failure. Such errors, distinct from generic ones like status 500, can be selectively ignored to prevent unnecessary test failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Acceptance Tests have the capability to detect console errors during CUJ's, potentially resulting in test failures. However, there are scenarios where certain console errors can be deemed acceptable and should not cause the test to fail. In order to ignore certain errors like these, you can use `ConsoleReporter.setConsoleErrorsToIgnore`, which takes in an array of error regexes to match the errors that can be acceptable. For instance, errors like `Blog Post with the given title exists already. Please use a different title.`, which occurs during the 'blog-editor-tests/try-to-publish-a-duplicate-blog-post-and-get-blocked' test, is ignored using the ConsoleReporter since it is an acceptable error in the context of the test. When passing acceptable errors like these to the ConsoleReporter, you should be specific and not use vague errors like `Failed to load resource...`, below is an example of this usage:
```

```typescript
ConsoleReporter.setConsoleErrorsToIgnore([

>   /Failed to load resource: the server responded with a status of 500/,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  /Failed to load resource: the server responded with a status of 500/,
  'Blog Post with the given title exists already. Please use a different title.'
```

>   /Failed to load resource: the server responded with a status of 500/,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  'Blog Post with the given title exists already. Please use a different title.'
```

]);
```

> To handle generic errors that need to be ignored, it's advisable to include them directly within the `console-reporter.ts` utility. In this file, you would add the error regex to a constant array and annotate each with a TODO comment referring to the relevant filed issue. Here's how you can implement this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To handle errors that need to be ignored and are are not specific to any acceptance test, you should include them directly within the `console-reporter.ts` utility. In this file, you would add the error regex to the `CONSOLE_ERRORS_TO_IGNORE` array and explain with a comment why this error should be ignored.
```

10) The test must be thoroughly tested before submitting a PR. The test can be run locally by running the following command as mentioned above or you can run the test on the CI server by pushing your code to the remote branch in your fork. The CI server will run the test and will show the result.

### Console errors logging functionality in Acceptance Tests

> Acceptance Tests have the capability to detect console errors during CUJ's, potentially resulting in test failures. However, there are scenarios where certain console errors can be deemed acceptable and should not cause the test to fail. In order to ignore certain errors like these, you can use `ConsoleReporter.setConsoleErrorsToIgnore`, which takes in an array of error regexes to match the errors that can be acceptable. For instance, errors like `Blog Post with the given title exists already. Please use a different title.`, which occurs during the 'blog-editor-tests/try-to-publish-a-duplicate-blog-post-and-get-blocked' test, is ignored using the ConsoleReporter since it is an acceptable error in the context of the test. When passing acceptable errors like these to the ConsoleReporter, you should be specific and not use vague errors like `Failed to load resource...`, below is an example of this usage:

Reviewer 2: ignore certain errors --> ignore errors

errors like --> an error like

Split "Below is an example ..." at the end into its own sentence.

Author: done

```typescript
ConsoleReporter.setConsoleErrorsToIgnore([
  'Blog Post with the given title exists already. Please use a different title.'
]);
```

> To handle errors that need to be ignored and are are not specific to any acceptance test, you should include them directly within the `console-reporter.ts` utility. In this file, you would add the error regex to the `CONSOLE_ERRORS_TO_IGNORE` array and explain with a comment why this error should be ignored.

Reviewer 2: Duplicate "are".

Author: done

```typescript
const CONSOLE_ERRORS_TO_IGNORE = [
  // These "localhost:9099" are errors related to communicating with the
  // Firebase emulator, which would never occur in production, so we just ignore
  // them.
  escapeRegExp(
    'http://localhost:9099/www.googleapis.com/identitytoolkit/v3/' +
      'relyingparty/getAccountInfo?key=fake-api-key'
  ),
  // This error covers the case when the PencilCode site uses an
  // invalid SSL certificate (which can happen when it expires).
  // In such cases, we ignore the error since it is out of our control.
  escapeRegExp(
    'https://pencilcode.net/lib/pencilcodeembed.js - Failed to ' +
      'load resource: net::ERR_CERT_DATE_INVALID'
  ),
];
```

> To handle errors that need to be fixed, you should include them directly within the `console-reporter.ts` utility. In this file, you would add the error regex to the `CONSOLE_ERRORS_TO_FIX ` array and add a TODO comment which have the details of the issue. If the error is new, also raise it in the issue section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To handle errors that need to be fixed, you should include them directly within the `console-reporter.ts` utility. In this file, you would add the error regex to the `CONSOLE_ERRORS_TO_FIX ` array and add a TODO comment which points to the existing issue number. If the error doesn't have any corresponding issue, then file a new issue on our [issue tracker](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues).
```

Author: done @jnvtnguyen PTAL.

Author: what will be more good `in our issue tracker` or `on our issue tracker`.

> Note: This will be removed after the bug is resolved.

Reviewer 2: It's unclear what the note and what "this" refer to here. I suggest inlining it with the paragraph above (if you're talking about the issue) ... or clarifying if you're talking about something else.

Author: done

For example:
```typescript
const CONSOLE_ERRORS_TO_FIX = [
  // TODO(#19746): Development console error "Uncaught in Promise" on signup.
  new RegExp(
    'Uncaught \\(in promise\\).*learner_groups_feature_status_handler'
  ),
  // TODO(#19733): 404 (Not Found) for resources used in midi-js.
  escapeRegExp(
    'http://localhost:8181/dist/oppia-angular/midi/examples/soundfont/acoustic' +
      '_grand_piano-ogg.js Failed to load resource: the server responded with a ' +
      'status of 404 (Not Found)'
  )
];
```

## Acceptance Tests for Mobile

Similar to desktop, we also have acceptance tests for mobile to ensure responsiveness and uninterrupted user journeys on small screen devices. While the tests themselves remain largely the same for both desktop and mobile, there are some differences. For instance, large full menus on desktop may be converted to dropdowns, hamburger menus, or other shortcuts on mobile, requiring additional actions to complete the tests.

> ### How to Write Tests for Mobile

Reviewer: How to write tests for mobile

Author: @jnvtnguyen Done.

```typescript
ConsoleReporter.setConsoleErrorsToIgnore([
  'Blog Post with the given title exists already. Please use a different title.'
]);
```

To handle errors that need to be ignored and are are not specific to any acceptance test, you should include them directly within the `console-reporter.ts` utility. In this file, you would add the error regex to the `CONSOLE_ERRORS_TO_IGNORE` array and explain with a comment why this error should be ignored.

```typescript
const CONSOLE_ERRORS_TO_IGNORE = [
  // These "localhost:9099" are errors related to communicating with the
  // Firebase emulator, which would never occur in production, so we just ignore
  // them.
  escapeRegExp(
    'http://localhost:9099/www.googleapis.com/identitytoolkit/v3/' +
      'relyingparty/getAccountInfo?key=fake-api-key'
  ),
  // This error covers the case when the PencilCode site uses an
  // invalid SSL certificate (which can happen when it expires).
  // In such cases, we ignore the error since it is out of our control.
  escapeRegExp(
    'https://pencilcode.net/lib/pencilcodeembed.js - Failed to ' +
      'load resource: net::ERR_CERT_DATE_INVALID'
  ),

> ];

Reviewer: Maybe add a section for CONSOLE_ERRORS_TO_FIX as well and how you should add error regexes here when you come by an error which is a bug (prompt developer to file an issue (or if already existing do not) and add a TODO). Though this will be gone once we completely remove all console error bugs.

Author: done

### How to Write Tests for Mobile

There will be no change in the `spec` file of the tests; however, there may be some changes in the `utils` file, which is optional and dependent on the specific test cases. In most cases, the tests will run correctly for both mobile and desktop.

However, in scenarios where certain actions are affected by the smaller screen size, additional steps may be required.

For example: consider a scenario where a menu is collapsed into a hamburger menu due to the small screen size:

![Shortcut Menu](image.png)

Here, if we want to click on the "Home" or any other button, we need to first click on the hamburger menu. Additionally, there may be differences in selectors for the same buttons between desktop and mobile. For instance, the publish button in desktop might be `e2e-test-publish-exploration`, while in mobile it could be `e2e-test-mobile-publish-button`.

We can handle these differences by including conditional statements in the `utils` file, using the `isViewportAtMobileWidth()` function to execute commands specific to mobile devices.

> For Eg.

Reviewer: For example:

Author: done

### Console errors logging functionality in Acceptance Tests

> Acceptance Tests have the capability to detect console errors during CUJ's, potentially resulting in test failures. However, there are scenarios where certain console errors can be deemed acceptable and should not cause the test to fail. In order to ignore errors like these, you can use `ConsoleReporter.setConsoleErrorsToIgnore`, which takes in an array of error regexes to match the errors that can be acceptable. For instance, an error like `Blog Post with the given title exists already. Please use a different title.`, which occurs during the 'blog-editor-tests/try-to-publish-a-duplicate-blog-post-and-get-blocked' test, is ignored using the ConsoleReporter since it is an acceptable error in the context of the test. When passing acceptable errors like these to the ConsoleReporter, you should be specific and not use vague errors like `Failed to load resource...`.

Reviewer 2: CUJ's --> CUJs

Author: done

  ),
];
```

> To handle errors that need to be fixed, you should include them directly within the `console-reporter.ts` utility. In this file, you would add the error regex to the `CONSOLE_ERRORS_TO_FIX ` array and add a TODO comment which points to the existing issue number(This will be removed after the bug is resolved). If the error doesn't have any corresponding issue, then file a new issue on our [issue tracker](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues).

Reviewer 2: `... add a TODO comment which points to the existing issue number (this comment should be removed when the bug is resolved).`

Author: done
